README.md, before:

# JetBrains Open Reading Club

Discuss papers on data-driven approaches in Software Engineering and Machine Learning fields.

## Upcoming sessions
 - TBD

## Past sessions

### 2022

 - **Dec 22** ["Modus: A Datalog Dialect for Building Container Images"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gtz4UBRY3iX-0x6R9qn4aIzgTPvBo9Mo/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mkZ0Odub7V8ey0RNSZCfmmZyx41FWsdmdN7TrObjgvU/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Dr. Sergey Mechtaev, Department of Computer Science at UCL (FSE '22)


 - **Apr 1** [“A Systematic Comparison of Two Refactoring-aware Merging Techniques”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P7XssemQsJgQ2w5noeS_yJoK6IIXxRKB/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LfnDhUjTAabgB2D2DpbVa3PHsIwGRpdGcewhX4YZr1Y/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Max Ellis, Software Maintenance and Reuse (SMR) Lab at the University of Alberta (pre-print)

 - **Jan 14** [“In-IDE Code Generation from Natural Language: Promise and Challenges”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Oimqq8_A_TyAQVbWSYO24K95nVEQtcbO/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eni_zJvU9qL7oo8xKfisR3yREj4g5UhwG2MIRulb7PY/edit)) </br>
   Frank F. Xu, Language Technologies Institute of CMU (ACM TOSEM '21)


### 2021

- **Dec 17th** [“APIScanner - Towards Automated Detection of Deprecated APIs in Python Libraries”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L9gX3Eu4DBf0sS_1XyCvrApuOOZ7x-51/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MeKrThVYIUrWBhMzWTwBmbsCswlkPY1RufWZocml2rA/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Dr. Sridhar Chimalakonda, Intelligent Software & Analytics Lab, IIT Tirupati (ICSE '21)

 - **Oct 29** [FACER-AS: An API Usage-based Code Recommendation Tool for Android Studio](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Nulfb60J4hnjzvckBj35wp5BWOQzvmJ8/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ee7T3Vap_ImpMR0cFzvjUysSuXAzqZzy9WaESq1XhPE/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Shamsa Abid, LUMS - Lahore University of Management Sciences (ICSME '21)

### 2020

 - **Dec 11**
    [LambdaNet: Probabilistic Type Inference using Graph Neural Networks](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fADxQ7fkRf-7Y_S00pX476Th9zFkkWYr/view) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DMJqysL_BBJxiXiFvSl-VotYykrwPcbk_pEhMQ1ph4U/edit)) </br>
   Jiayi Wei (魏家一), UT Austin (ICLR '20)

 - **Oct 30**
    [How Often Do Single-Statement Bugs Occur? The ManySStuBs4J Dataset](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UjugdnfAvXXuXFe9LtwnLOjnviX2PP6w/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1crcXMEw4o4pZzi4Ak2ETSDlUkcZkj7ZXK_MfpoeWQ4Y/edit#)) </br>
    Rafael-Michael Karampatsis, University of Edinburgh (MSR 2021 [Mining challenge](https://conf.researchr.org/track/msr-2021/msr-2021-mining-challenge#Call-for-Mining-Challenge-Papers))


## Goal

- promote reading papers
- rise awareness on current research directions in PL, SE, and ML communities
- create opportunity for collaborations


## How it works

Every month we pick and discuss a paper online, in English. We expect everyone to read the paper beforehand. We will try our best to invite one of the paper authors for a Q&A session.

Anyone can add a comment the sessions's document on [GDrive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ERtBPYEpYPA6DYKWDrvxpwVfKyyQjTBq) with questions or things that are worth clarifying.


## When

Monthly, on Fridays


## Where

- online ([here](https://meet.google.com/azw-atrp-mag))


## How to participate

- read the paper
- post questions in the sessions gDoc
- join the live session

Commit message:

Add the first session of 2023, March 3

README.md, after:

# JetBrains Open Reading Club

Discuss papers on data-driven methods in Software Engineering and Machine Learning.

## Upcoming sessions
 - **March 3, 16:00 CET (GMT+1)** ([📅 event](https://jetbrains.team/meetings/1PXUIs0LdE8y?date=2023-03-03))</br> 
    ["DiffSearch: A Scalable and Precise Search Engine for Code Changes"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1DG7N3jo7YK1tXAFFr7H33MijBubm0Og4/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VGpTwUzxiwmahINcYlchjYOIcfIHaCFObHoozytwrrc/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Luca Di Grazia, Software Lab at Stuttgart Universität (IEEE Transactions on SE '22)

## Past sessions

### 2022

 - **Dec 22** ["Modus: A Datalog Dialect for Building Container Images"](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gtz4UBRY3iX-0x6R9qn4aIzgTPvBo9Mo/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mkZ0Odub7V8ey0RNSZCfmmZyx41FWsdmdN7TrObjgvU/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Dr. Sergey Mechtaev, Department of Computer Science at UCL (FSE '22)


 - **Apr 1** [“A Systematic Comparison of Two Refactoring-aware Merging Techniques”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1P7XssemQsJgQ2w5noeS_yJoK6IIXxRKB/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LfnDhUjTAabgB2D2DpbVa3PHsIwGRpdGcewhX4YZr1Y/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Max Ellis, Software Maintenance and Reuse (SMR) Lab at the University of Alberta (pre-print)

 - **Jan 14** [“In-IDE Code Generation from Natural Language: Promise and Challenges”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Oimqq8_A_TyAQVbWSYO24K95nVEQtcbO/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1eni_zJvU9qL7oo8xKfisR3yREj4g5UhwG2MIRulb7PY/edit)) </br>
   Frank F. Xu, Language Technologies Institute of CMU (ACM TOSEM '21)


### 2021

- **Dec 17th** [“APIScanner - Towards Automated Detection of Deprecated APIs in Python Libraries”](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1L9gX3Eu4DBf0sS_1XyCvrApuOOZ7x-51/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MeKrThVYIUrWBhMzWTwBmbsCswlkPY1RufWZocml2rA/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Dr. Sridhar Chimalakonda, Intelligent Software & Analytics Lab, IIT Tirupati (ICSE '21)

 - **Oct 29** [FACER-AS: An API Usage-based Code Recommendation Tool for Android Studio](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Nulfb60J4hnjzvckBj35wp5BWOQzvmJ8/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ee7T3Vap_ImpMR0cFzvjUysSuXAzqZzy9WaESq1XhPE/edit?usp=sharing)) </br>
   Shamsa Abid, LUMS - Lahore University of Management Sciences (ICSME '21)

### 2020

 - **Dec 11**
    [LambdaNet: Probabilistic Type Inference using Graph Neural Networks](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fADxQ7fkRf-7Y_S00pX476Th9zFkkWYr/view) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1DMJqysL_BBJxiXiFvSl-VotYykrwPcbk_pEhMQ1ph4U/edit)) </br>
   Jiayi Wei (魏家一), UT Austin (ICLR '20)

 - **Oct 30**
    [How Often Do Single-Statement Bugs Occur? The ManySStuBs4J Dataset](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UjugdnfAvXXuXFe9LtwnLOjnviX2PP6w/view?usp=sharing) ([questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1crcXMEw4o4pZzi4Ak2ETSDlUkcZkj7ZXK_MfpoeWQ4Y/edit#)) </br>
    Rafael-Michael Karampatsis, University of Edinburgh (MSR 2021 [Mining challenge](https://conf.researchr.org/track/msr-2021/msr-2021-mining-challenge#Call-for-Mining-Challenge-Papers))


## Goal

- promote reading papers
- rise awareness on current research directions in PL, SE, and ML communities
- create opportunity for collaborations


## How it works

Every month we pick and discuss a paper online, in English. We expect everyone to read the paper beforehand. We will try our best to invite one of the paper authors for a Q&A session.

Anyone can add a comment the sessions's document on [GDrive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ERtBPYEpYPA6DYKWDrvxpwVfKyyQjTBq) with questions or things that are worth clarifying.


## When

Monthly, on Fridays


## Where

- online ([here](https://meet.google.com/azw-atrp-mag))


## How to participate

- read the paper
- post questions in the sessions gDoc
- join the live session
